        "desc": "Prerequisite: undergraduate courses in physical chemistry and thermodynamics, or equivalent. Principles of thermodynamics developed quantitatively to include thermodynamic functions and their application to chemical engineering processes.",


        "desc": "Prerequisites: Permission of instructor for approved undergraduate or graduate course in geology or soil mechanics or construction engineering within the last seven years or equivalent. Geology has a significant influence on how we plan, design, and construct engineering works. This course examines how geologic formations and natural features can potentially and ultimately affect the planning, design, data collection, and construction of engineering infrastructures. This course helps students learn how to apply engineering principles to predict and mitigate natural and artificial geo-hazards, including the availability, selection, and use of geomaterials. The course also explores on a field scale the engineering impacts of natural geologic hazards, including landslides, sinkholes, earthquakes, and subsiding geomaterials. Case study applications and individual field trips within New Jersey are included.",

        "desc": "Prerequisites: Permission of instructor for approved undergraduate or graduate course in soil mechanics or geology or construction engineering within the last seven years or equivalent. The integrity of large buildings, dams, tunnels, bridges, and many other forms of engineering infrastructure is vitally dependent upon the rock behavior under loading conditions that impact their foundations. This course focuses on theoretical and experimental rock mechanics and rock engineering; review of laboratory and field rock testing; empirical and analytical methods for describing strength; deformability and conductivity of intact rock and rock masses; fracture mechanics and mechanics of discontinuous media, including fluid flow through discontinuous media; and design and analysis of rock slopes/rock fall, underground engineering structures in rock and foundations on rock. Includes numerical modeling software training and a term paper/design project.",

        "desc": "Prerequisite: undergraduate engineering economics or equivalent. Economic use of a firm's capital resources. Feasibility studies of potential major capital investments likely to be considered by an enterprise. Risk assessment, cost engineering, effect of financing sources, life cycle, and technologies forecasting models. Case studies are used.",

        "desc": "Prerequisites: undergraduate electrical circuits and mechanical vibrations or equivalent. Electro-mechanical systems; control loops; use of mechanical networks in dynamic systems; and stability and response to various inputs in electro-mechanical networks.",

        "desc": "Prerequisites: elementary probability and statistics andTRAN 650or equivalent. Provides analytical techniques for the analysis of transportation problems in an urban environment. Principal components include applications of models for the analysis of transportation problems, advanced static, dynamic, and stochastic traffic assignment procedures and transportation network design exact and heuristic solution algorithms. Offers hands-on experience with existing software in traffic assignment and transportation network design.",

        "desc": "Prerequisites: Fundamental knowledge of statisticsMATH 105or equivalent and computer programmingCS 106or equivalent.  Restrictions: Graduate Standing or Approval from the Course Instructor.  Statistical learning theory with a focus on artificial intelligence (AI) for geospatial data. Two perspectives through machine learning include supervised and unsupervised learning of  geospatial patterns. Course outcomes include knowledge and skills necessary to investigate patterns in geospatial data to support decision-making within the context of engineering and geoscience disciplines.",

